---
date: "2011-08-18T16:14:08Z"
slug: journal-0-2-0
title: Journal 0.2.0 Released!
---

I'm releasing v0.2.0 of Journal today, a Python command line tool that I've
created to help with keeping a journal for work/personal stuff! Check PyPi for
the latest or do an upgrade install with pip, `pip install -U journal`.

Main changes include:

- Support for viewing entries on a specific date and over a specific time period
- The ability to create multiple entries at once from the command line
- Python 2.5 compatibility (thanks to [Tox][3])

Read on for more details.

###Viewing Existing Entries

I'm hesitant to add a full human-date parsing library as a dependency, since I
don't need specific time based or future based dates, so I rolled my own. The
date formats currently supported include:

1. previous day increments: "1 day ago", "a day ago", "5 days ago", "yesterday",
   or "today"
2. specific American date formats: "8/15", "8/15/2011", "5-6-2011", or "August
   15"

So you can now view specific entries for a day by using the flag `--view`. Short
tags work with these dates.

    $ journal --view "yesterday"
    $ journal --view "12 days ago"
    $ journal --view "8/14"
    # Easiest way to view today
    $ journal -vt

And you can view all entries since a specific previous date, using the flag
`--since`. This is sparse output, dates without entries will be skipped quietly.

    $ journal --since "yesterday"
    $ journal --since "7 days ago"

I am still thinking over adding week and month dates to the mix, along with any
other reasonable human time formats. The `--view` and `--since` flags are
modeled after Git's log command, I'm thinking about adding in a `--until` flag
also, for doing specific ranges. Although, adding a week date range might cover
that need better.

Viewing entries over multiple days might provide lots of output, so I would
recommend using `less` or `more` to paginate.

    $ journal --since "100 days ago" | less

###Adding Multiple Entries

You can add multiple entries at a time from the command line, which will get
added together in the journal.

    $ journal "Foo was compeleted" "Bar was completed, after foo"
    $ tail ~/.journal/2011.08.18.txt
    Thu 10:52:01 2011-08-18
    -Foo was compeleted
    -Bar was completed, after foo

I felt simplifying multiple entry was useful, but a [friend on Twitter][2]
remarked that using quotes felt limiting. I'm starting to agree with him and may
change the main entry mode back to "single entry" mode, but capturing all args
and not require quotes. It adds issues with semi-colons or single quotes getting
caught by your shell, but maybe it's worth it? This process is also leading me
toward a config file, with sensible defaults, but configurable options for those
interested.

###The Future

I think for the next version, better listing options of existing journal entries
would be useful. Having a config file to control entry options and date
formatting preferences perhaps. Have thoughts on what you like or don't like?
Let me know in the comments!

[1]: /2011/08/16/journaling
[2]: https://twitter.com/electroly/status/104205241360199680
[3]: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/tox
