---
categories: Life
date: 2011/12/31 14:43:50
tags: ''
title: 2012 Python Meme
draft: false
---

I wanted to do some kind of reflection this year, so may as well hop on the
bandwagon.

###What’s the coolest Python application, framework or library you have discovered in 2011?

**Fabric**. For a good six months of this year, I was managing everything
server-wise at my last job through Fabric and learned a good deal about it,
[hacking in some features][1] and [giving a presentation][2] on it at the local
[Pittsburgh users group][3]. It's great to be able to automate things and to
have that ability in Python.

###What new programming technique did you learn in 2011?

I can't think of a specific area I focused on, but overall: I've broaden my
knowledge of Python unit testing, deployment, and project packaging. I've also
ben diving deep into background processing with [Celery][4] lately, which really
interests me.

###What’s the name of the open source project you contributed the most in 2011? What did you do?

Unfortunately, I don't think I have contributed back too much. [Journal][5],
a Python script for keeping a CLI journal, was probably my most complete project
for the year, but I haven't been hacking on it recently. Reaching out more via
Github and interacting more with other developers is my goal for next year.

###What was the Python blog or website you read the most in 2011?

[HackerNews][6]. After moving to San Francisco, getting a job via the monthly
job threads, and meeting up with people from the site, I've really come to enjoy
the dialogue available on programming and Python.

###What are the three top things you want to learn in 2012?

- Logging, metrics, and monitoring. Or applying the latest techniques and
  practices in production: using JSON for logged messages, realtime monitoring
  and alerting, longterm  storage, indexing, and searching.
- A new language.  I know a great deal about Python, but it's time to start
  fresh. Haskell has always been high on my list, but I've never set specific
  goals and forced myself to start anything. Time to change that.
- More Python? I've been diving into packaging once again, but maybe I should
  try and figure out how to help fix what I don't like about Python. I'm looking
  forward to attending PyCon US 2012 this year, hoping to get some great ideas.

###What are the top software, app or lib you wish someone would write in 2012?

Unify/fix Python packaging? More Python3 releases? I still need to convert all
my scripts to Python3. I have a bunch of Github improvements I'd love see
happen, but maybe with the v3 API I can hack them in myself.

Want to do your own list? Here’s how:

- copy-paste the questions and answer to them in your blog
- tweet it with the [#2012pythonmeme][7] hashtag


[1]: /2011/02/17/dynamic-fabric-commands-for-managing-cloud-servers/
[2]: /2011/06/22/fabric-for-python-automation/
[3]: http://pghpython.org/
[4]: http://celeryproject.org/
[5]: https://github.com/askedrelic/journal
[6]: http://news.ycombinator.com/
[7]: https://twitter.com/#!/search/%232012pythonmeme
